src/AvaloniaUI.Net/wwwroot/docs/tutorial/creating-a-view.md, before:

---
Title: Creating a View
Order: 20
---

Let's first create a view to display a list of TODO items together with a button to add a new item.

Because this is a first tutorial, we're going to first just populate the view with some hard-coded
data. In later steps we'll use the MVVM pattern to populate this view.

Our view is going to be a `UserControl`.

## Create the UserControl

We're going to create the `UserControl` from a template. Follow the instructions below:

### Visual Studio

1. Right click your project's `Views` folder in Solution Explorer
2. Select the `Add -> New Item` menu item
3. In the dialog that appears, navigate to the "Avalonia" section in the category tree
4. Select "User Control (Avalonia)"
5. Enter `TodoListView` as the "Name"
6. Click the "Add" button

### .NET Core CLI

Run this command from the root directory of your project (the directory that contains
"Program.cs" and the "Views" directory):

```powershell
dotnet new avalonia.usercontrol -o Views -n TodoListView  --namespace Todo.Views
```

## The UserControl

The template should create a XAML file with the following contents in the `Views` directory,
alongside `MainWindow.xaml`.

:::filename
Views/TodoListView.xaml
:::
```xml
<UserControl xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
             xmlns:d="http://schemas.microsoft.com/expression/blend/2008"
             xmlns:mc="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/markup-compatibility/2006"
             mc:Ignorable="d" d:DesignWidth="800" d:DesignHeight="450"
             x:Class="Todo.Views.TodoListView">
    Welcome to Avalonia!
</UserControl>
```

Alongside the XAML, you will also find a `TodoListView.xaml.cs` file containing the code-behind
for the view (in Visual Studio this is nested under the XAML file so click the expander next to
the XAML file in Solution Explorer to see it):

:::filename
Views/TodoListView.xaml.cs
:::
```csharp
using Avalonia;
using Avalonia.Controls;
using Avalonia.Markup.Xaml;

namespace Todo.Views
{
    public class TodoListView : UserControl
    {
        public TodoListView()
        {
            this.InitializeComponent();
        }

        private void InitializeComponent()
        {
            AvaloniaXamlLoader.Load(this);
        }
    }
}
```

We're not going to touch the code-behind file for a little while, but notice that the class is
called `TodoListView` and it's located in the `Todo.Views` namespace.

## Edit the UserControl

Edit the contents of `Views/TodoListView.xaml` to contain the following:

:::filename
Views/TodoListView.xaml
:::
```xml
<UserControl xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
             xmlns:d="http://schemas.microsoft.com/expression/blend/2008"
             xmlns:mc="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/markup-compatibility/2006"
             mc:Ignorable="d" d:DesignWidth="200" d:DesignHeight="400"
             x:Class="Todo.Views.TodoListView">
  <DockPanel>
    <Button DockPanel.Dock="Bottom">Add an item</Button>
    <StackPanel>
      <CheckBox Margin="4">Walk the dog</CheckBox>
      <CheckBox Margin="4">Buy some milk</CheckBox>
    </StackPanel>
  </DockPanel>
</UserControl>
```

If you're using the Visual Studio extension you should see the contents of the control displayed
in the previewer after completing a build:

![Designer view](images/creating-a-view-todolistview.png)

## What does it all mean?

Lets take a look at the code we just entered line-by-line.

```xml
<UserControl xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
             xmlns:d="http://schemas.microsoft.com/expression/blend/2008"
             xmlns:mc="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/markup-compatibility/2006"
```

The root element in the XAML is `UserControl` as could be expected. This is followed by a bunch of
`xmlns` declarations. Each of these declares an XML namespace but the most important one is the
first one: `xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"` - this declares that the XAML in the file
contains Avalonia XAML; without this entry nothing will work.

The next XML namespace is `xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"`. This is used to
import XAML features that aren't specific to Avalonia. We'll be seeing this in use later.

The following two namespaces are used to communicate designer-specific information, which is
specified next:

```xml
mc:Ignorable="d" d:DesignWidth="200" d:DesignHeight="400"
```

`mc:Ignorable="d"` tells the XAML engine that entries beginning with `d:` can be ignored and you can
pretty much ignore it too!

The `d:DesignWidth="200"` and `d:DesignHeight="400"` attributes tell the XAML designer to display
the content with a size of 200x400 pixels. They're ignored at runtime.

```xml
x:Class="Todo.Views.TodoListView"
```

This line tells the XAML engine where the class that accompanies the XAML can be found. It's the
fully-qualified name of the class. Note that this attribute is prefixed with `x:` - this relates
to the `xmlns:x` entry we saw earlier.

Ok, that's the boilerplate out of the way! Now onto the meat of the code:


```xml
<DockPanel>
```

First we add a `DockPanel` as the child of the `UserControl`. A `UserControl` can only contain a
single child so often the child is one of Avalonia's panel controls. `Panel` controls are special
in that they can have multiple children.

`DockPanel` is a type of panel which lays out its controls at the top, bottom, left and right sides,
with a single control filling the remaining space in the middle.

```xml
<Button DockPanel.Dock="Bottom">Add an item</Button>
```

Now we declare the `Button` that appears at the bottom of the view. The `DockPanel.Dock` attribute
tells the containing `DockPanel` that we want the button to appear at the bottom. As the element
content we set the button text: `"Add an item"`.

```xml
<StackPanel>
```

Next we add another panel: a `StackPanel`. `StackPanel` lays out its child controls - surprise - in
a stack. By default it lays out the controls vertically, but you can also make it lay out controls
horizontally by setting the `Orientation` property, e.g. `<StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal">`.

Because this is the last child in the `DockPanel` it will fill the remaining space in the center
of the control.

```xml
<CheckBox Margin="4">Walk the dog</CheckBox>
<CheckBox Margin="4">Buy some milk</CheckBox>
```

Last of all, we add two `CheckBox` controls to represent the TODO items. We're also giving the
controls a margin to separate them a little bit visually.

## Display the view in the Window

To see the view we've just created, we need to add it to the application's main window. Open the
`Views/MainWindow.xaml` file and edit it to have the following content:

:::filename
Views/MainWindow.xaml
:::
```xml
<Window xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"
        xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
        xmlns:views="clr-namespace:Todo.Views"
        x:Class="Todo.Views.MainWindow"
        Icon="/Assets/avalonia-logo.ico"
        Width="200" Height="300"
        Title="Avalonia Todo">
  <views:TodoListView/>
</Window>
```

A lot of this is similar to the markup we've already seen, so lets just look at the interesting
parts:

```xml
xmlns:views="clr-namespace:Todo.Views"
```

We want to display the `TodoListView` control we just created, which is in the `Todo.Views` C#
namespace. Here we're mapping the `Todo.Views` namespace to the `views` XML namespace. Any control
that is not a core Avalonia control will generally need this type of mapping in order for the XAML
engine to find the control.

```xml
<views:TodoListView/>
```

Using the XML namespace we've just declared we now place the `TodoListView` control as the content
of our `Window`.

## Run the application

If you now run the application (by pressing `F5` in Visual Studio or executing `dotnet run` in .NET
Core) you should see the application running in all its glory:

![The running application](images/creating-a-view-run.png)

<a class="btn btn-primary" role="button" href="creating-model-viewmodel">
    Next
</a>

Commit message:

Change .xaml -> .axaml in tutorial.

src/AvaloniaUI.Net/wwwroot/docs/tutorial/creating-a-view.md, after:

---
Title: Creating a View
Order: 20
---

Let's first create a view to display a list of TODO items together with a button to add a new item.

Because this is a first tutorial, we're going to first just populate the view with some hard-coded
data. In later steps we'll use the MVVM pattern to populate this view.

Our view is going to be a `UserControl`.

## Create the UserControl

We're going to create the `UserControl` from a template. Follow the instructions below:

### Visual Studio

1. Right click your project's `Views` folder in Solution Explorer
2. Select the `Add -> New Item` menu item
3. In the dialog that appears, navigate to the "Avalonia" section in the category tree
4. Select "User Control (Avalonia)"
5. Enter `TodoListView` as the "Name"
6. Click the "Add" button

### .NET Core CLI

Run this command from the root directory of your project (the directory that contains
"Program.cs" and the "Views" directory):

```powershell
dotnet new avalonia.usercontrol -o Views -n TodoListView  --namespace Todo.Views
```

## The UserControl

The template should create a XAML file with the following contents in the `Views` directory,
alongside `MainWindow.axaml`.

:::filename
Views/TodoListView.axaml
:::
```xml
<UserControl xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
             xmlns:d="http://schemas.microsoft.com/expression/blend/2008"
             xmlns:mc="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/markup-compatibility/2006"
             mc:Ignorable="d" d:DesignWidth="800" d:DesignHeight="450"
             x:Class="Todo.Views.TodoListView">
    Welcome to Avalonia!
</UserControl>
```

Alongside the XAML, you will also find a `TodoListView.axaml.cs` file containing the code-behind
for the view (in Visual Studio this is nested under the XAML file so click the expander next to
the XAML file in Solution Explorer to see it):

:::filename
Views/TodoListView.axaml.cs
:::
```csharp
using Avalonia;
using Avalonia.Controls;
using Avalonia.Markup.Xaml;

namespace Todo.Views
{
    public class TodoListView : UserControl
    {
        public TodoListView()
        {
            this.InitializeComponent();
        }

        private void InitializeComponent()
        {
            AvaloniaXamlLoader.Load(this);
        }
    }
}
```

We're not going to touch the code-behind file for a little while, but notice that the class is
called `TodoListView` and it's located in the `Todo.Views` namespace.

## Edit the UserControl

Edit the contents of `Views/TodoListView.axaml` to contain the following:

:::filename
Views/TodoListView.axaml
:::
```xml
<UserControl xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
             xmlns:d="http://schemas.microsoft.com/expression/blend/2008"
             xmlns:mc="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/markup-compatibility/2006"
             mc:Ignorable="d" d:DesignWidth="200" d:DesignHeight="400"
             x:Class="Todo.Views.TodoListView">
  <DockPanel>
    <Button DockPanel.Dock="Bottom">Add an item</Button>
    <StackPanel>
      <CheckBox Margin="4">Walk the dog</CheckBox>
      <CheckBox Margin="4">Buy some milk</CheckBox>
    </StackPanel>
  </DockPanel>
</UserControl>
```

If you're using the Visual Studio extension you should see the contents of the control displayed
in the previewer after completing a build:

![Designer view](images/creating-a-view-todolistview.png)

## What does it all mean?

Lets take a look at the code we just entered line-by-line.

```xml
<UserControl xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
             xmlns:d="http://schemas.microsoft.com/expression/blend/2008"
             xmlns:mc="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/markup-compatibility/2006"
```

The root element in the XAML is `UserControl` as could be expected. This is followed by a bunch of
`xmlns` declarations. Each of these declares an XML namespace but the most important one is the
first one: `xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"` - this declares that the XAML in the file
contains Avalonia XAML; without this entry nothing will work.

The next XML namespace is `xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"`. This is used to
import XAML features that aren't specific to Avalonia. We'll be seeing this in use later.

The following two namespaces are used to communicate designer-specific information, which is
specified next:

```xml
mc:Ignorable="d" d:DesignWidth="200" d:DesignHeight="400"
```

`mc:Ignorable="d"` tells the XAML engine that entries beginning with `d:` can be ignored and you can
pretty much ignore it too!

The `d:DesignWidth="200"` and `d:DesignHeight="400"` attributes tell the XAML designer to display
the content with a size of 200x400 pixels. They're ignored at runtime.

```xml
x:Class="Todo.Views.TodoListView"
```

This line tells the XAML engine where the class that accompanies the XAML can be found. It's the
fully-qualified name of the class. Note that this attribute is prefixed with `x:` - this relates
to the `xmlns:x` entry we saw earlier.

Ok, that's the boilerplate out of the way! Now onto the meat of the code:


```xml
<DockPanel>
```

First we add a `DockPanel` as the child of the `UserControl`. A `UserControl` can only contain a
single child so often the child is one of Avalonia's panel controls. `Panel` controls are special
in that they can have multiple children.

`DockPanel` is a type of panel which lays out its controls at the top, bottom, left and right sides,
with a single control filling the remaining space in the middle.

```xml
<Button DockPanel.Dock="Bottom">Add an item</Button>
```

Now we declare the `Button` that appears at the bottom of the view. The `DockPanel.Dock` attribute
tells the containing `DockPanel` that we want the button to appear at the bottom. As the element
content we set the button text: `"Add an item"`.

```xml
<StackPanel>
```

Next we add another panel: a `StackPanel`. `StackPanel` lays out its child controls - surprise - in
a stack. By default it lays out the controls vertically, but you can also make it lay out controls
horizontally by setting the `Orientation` property, e.g. `<StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal">`.

Because this is the last child in the `DockPanel` it will fill the remaining space in the center
of the control.

```xml
<CheckBox Margin="4">Walk the dog</CheckBox>
<CheckBox Margin="4">Buy some milk</CheckBox>
```

Last of all, we add two `CheckBox` controls to represent the TODO items. We're also giving the
controls a margin to separate them a little bit visually.

## Display the view in the Window

To see the view we've just created, we need to add it to the application's main window. Open the
`Views/MainWindow.axaml` file and edit it to have the following content:

:::filename
Views/MainWindow.axaml
:::
```xml
<Window xmlns="https://github.com/avaloniaui"
        xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
        xmlns:views="clr-namespace:Todo.Views"
        x:Class="Todo.Views.MainWindow"
        Icon="/Assets/avalonia-logo.ico"
        Width="200" Height="300"
        Title="Avalonia Todo">
  <views:TodoListView/>
</Window>
```

A lot of this is similar to the markup we've already seen, so lets just look at the interesting
parts:

```xml
xmlns:views="clr-namespace:Todo.Views"
```

We want to display the `TodoListView` control we just created, which is in the `Todo.Views` C#
namespace. Here we're mapping the `Todo.Views` namespace to the `views` XML namespace. Any control
that is not a core Avalonia control will generally need this type of mapping in order for the XAML
engine to find the control.

```xml
<views:TodoListView/>
```

Using the XML namespace we've just declared we now place the `TodoListView` control as the content
of our `Window`.

## Run the application

If you now run the application (by pressing `F5` in Visual Studio or executing `dotnet run` in .NET
Core) you should see the application running in all its glory:

![The running application](images/creating-a-view-run.png)

<a class="btn btn-primary" role="button" href="creating-model-viewmodel">
    Next
</a>
